Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will learn how to adjust our theme templates to account for parent and children
pages.
So, for example, imagine under our About US page, we want two new children pages named our history
and our goals.
Now, before we update our theme to reflect parent child page relationships.
Let's first go and actually create the two children pages over in the word press admon area.
So let's add a new page.
Let's title this one our history paste in a bit of dummy content.
And here's the important part.
Over in the right hand side bar, not under the block menu, but instead under the document menu.
Well, down towards the bottom, we see page attributes.
And if we click onto that, we can then choose a parent.
So instead of no parent, let's set it to be about us.
OK, then let's go ahead and publish this page.
And just for good measure, let's create another new page and let's call this one.
Our goals, dummy content over in the sidebar.
Tell the parent to be about us.
Let's save that.
OK.
So we've created the two pages, but now we need the front end of our Web site to actually reflect those
parent child relationships.
So, for example, if we use this permalink here to visit the Our Goals page, our focus for this lesson
is this breadcrumb box.
Now, at the moment, it is entirely hardcoded.
Right.
So this shouldn't say our history.
It should say the name of the current page, which is our goals.
So right now, let's dig into our theme code and make this breadcrumb box dynamic.
So in our text editor within our theme folder, let's open up page dot, BHP.
And from the top, if you look below this page banner div, you'll then see a container.
And right below that, this div with a class of meta box.
That's the breadcrumb box.
So you can see towards the end of this div we have hardcoded our history.
So why don't we begin by deleting that, hardcoded our history.
And instead we can drop in to P.H. P to output the title of the current page.
So let's just call the function named the title.
Cool.
So that makes this text dynamic.
Next, let's set things up so that this entire breadcrumb box only appears on child pages.
Right.
Because it makes sense that we would want a link back to the parent page.
But once you are back on the parent page, there is no need for this box.
So back in our text editor, we only want to display this metal box div or this breadcrumb box div if
the current page being viewed is a child's page.
Now, the first step to achieving that is by using something in BHP called an if statement.
So do this with me right above this div with a class of metabolics, right above that.
Let's add a new line and let's drop in to BHP.
And within BHP, let's write our first if statement.
So we just type out the word if.
And then a pair of parentheses.
And then a pair of curly brackets.
OK.
Now, whatever we place within the curly brackets will only occur if whatever we place within the parentheses
is true.
So let's work through an example in the curly brackets.
Let's maybe echo out a phrase that says the sky is blue.
OK.
And now within our parentheses on this line, let's say if two plus two equals sign equals sign four.
So this will always be true.
Right.
Two plus two will always equal four.
So because our condition within these parentheses is true, BHP will run whatever we place within the
curly brackets.
So save and refresh.
Here we see the sky is blue.
But if we change our condition to two plus two equals seven.
That is false.
Right.
So because it's false, the code in the curly brackets will no longer run.
So now you can see we are missing.
The sky is blue.
So what we want to do is come up with a condition instead of two plus two equals something.
We want our condition to be if the current page has a parent page.
Right.
Because if it does, that means it's a child page.
Now, in order to find out information about a page like that, we are going to need to review a WordPress
topic named Post I.D..
So what in the world is a post I.D.?
Well, the easiest way to explain that is to jump into your WordPress admon screen and begin editing
any existing post or page.
And I want to direct your attention up to the address bar.
Whenever you're editing a post or page towards the end of the U.
RL, you will see a number.
And that is the unique numerical I.D. for that poster page.
In my case, my our goals page has an idea of twenty four.
And if I go check out the main about US page.
In my case, it has an I.D. of 16 in your WordPress Web site.
It might have a different I.D. number, but that's not important.
What is important is that each page in Post has this unique number.
And back in our code, we can use that unique I.D. number to find out information about a page or post.
So right now, I want to show you a few WordPress functions we can use that are related to post I.D..
So for the time being, let's delete this if statement.
So now we just have this empty BHP section, and I want you to type this out with me.
Let's go out the results of a WordPress function named Get the Eye Deep and notice the I and D are capitalized.
But if we save that here we see a 16 on the about us page.
And if we go back to the our goal screen, we see a twenty four.
Cool.
So this get the idea function will give us the I.D. of the current page that's being viewed.
But that's not exactly what we're interested in.
We want to know if the current page has a parent page.
So instead, let's do this.
Let's delete this line.
And instead, let's echo out the results of a WordPress function named WP.
Get post parent Aidid.
And this function will do exactly what it says it will do.
So within the parentheses, we give it an idea for a page or post.
And this function will respond by giving us back the I.D. number for that pages parent.
So, for example, if we were on the our goals page and we wanted to find the idea of this page's parent,
well, this page itself has an idea of twenty four.
But instead of hard coding that number, we want this to be dynamic.
So to get the idea of the current page.
Remember the function.
Get the I.D..
So altogether, what this line of code is saying is get the idea of the current page reviewing and then
WordPress.
We want you to use that number to look up the I.D. of its parent page.
So if we save this and refresh, we see a 16.
And remember, that's the idea of my parent about us page.
And if we go to that about us parent page, the number we see is zero.
And that's because this page about us doesn't have a parent.
So this function WP get post parent I.D., it will return zero.
If a page doesn't have a parent and if a page does have a parent, we just get the idea of that parent
page.
Now that behavior will play very nicely with an if statement.
Let me show you what I mean.
Let's bring this full circle and get back to an IF statement.
But before we go ahead and delete this line, I want you to copy part of it to your clipboard.
So beginning from the W at the start of this function name and then all the way right before the semicolon.
Let's copy this part in your clipboard.
So we don't have to type it again in a few seconds.
Cool.
So now let's go ahead and delete this line and let's put everything together.
So let's write an if statement.
If parentheses curly brackets within the curly brackets.
Let's go out and say I am a child page.
Now, within the parentheses, right after the F for our condition.
I want to show you something neat.
So we already tried.
Two plus two equals.
And then four would be true.
And then some other made up.
No, this would be false.
But obviously we don't always want everything to be a mathematical equation that evaluates to true or
false.
ENPI, HP and many other programming languages.
There's a special boolean value if you say true.
That will obviously evaluate to true.
So we see.
I am a child, Paige.
You could also say false.
But beyond that, what's neat is simply a value of zero.
We'll evaluate to false.
Right.
So now we do not see.
I am a child, Paige.
And any number such as one or any number that's larger than that.
We'll evaluate to true.
I am a child page.
So here's the cool part for our condition, we can just paste in our clipboard because remember, this
function will give us the I.D. of the parent page.
And if the page doesn't have a parent, it returns a zero.
And if it's a zero, that evaluates to false.
Cool.
So now we finally have a bit of code that will only run if the current page is a child page.
So we're on the our goal screen and we see I am a child page.
Go to the main about us parent page.
We don't see that message.
So now all we need to do is move this div with the class of metal box.
This is that little breadcrumb box.
Let's just move this H.T. Amelle to live within the IF statement.
So let's do this.
Let's delete this echo.
I am a child page.
And right above it on this line.
Right after the curly bracket.
Let's drop out of P HP.
And down this line when the curly bracket ends right before that, let's go back into P HP.
So now on this line where my cursor is, we can have regular old HDMI out.
So now let's just cut and paste this metal box.
Breadcrumb box.
Cut it.
And then let's paste it right here.
Cool.
So let's save that.
And I'm on the about a screen.
Now, we no longer have that breadcrumb area.
But if I go back to the our goals page.
Cool.
There it is.
The next thing we should work on is adjusting this so that the words about us are not hard coded.
Right.
Because what if we were on a child page that didn't belong to about us?
For example, down in our footer, remember, we created a privacy policy page.
So let's click on that.
And what if we had a child page that belonged to privacy policy?
Well, in that case, we wouldn't want our template to have this about us.
Title hardcoded.
Instead, we would want this to dynamically pull in the name of the parent page.
Now, before we write the P HP code to achieve that.
Why don't we first go and create an actual privacy policy child page so that things will be easy to
test and see if they're working.
So back in the admen section, I will use the add new button.
And let's just create a new page and maybe call it cookie policy paste in a bit of dummy content.
And the important part is that we want to set the parent to privacy policy.
OK, so let's save this.
And now if I use this permalink here to view that new page.
Cool.
So there's the title Cookie Policy, but this back to about us link doesn't make any sense.
Instead, it should say back to privacy policy.
So right now, let's right a bit of P.H. peek code to make this dynamic.
So let's delete this hardcoded about us and instead let's drop in to BHP and let's echo out the results
of a WordPress function named get the title.
Now, this function name sounds very similar to the function.
This just the title.
The difference between these two functions is that the title will output the title of the current post
or page, whereas get the title allows you to pass in an I.D. number in these parentheses and it will
give you the title for that post instead of just the current post that you've looped through.
So we don't want to hard code a numerical I.D. here.
We want this to be flexible.
Let's just place an X just as a temporary place holder.
And we will circle back to this in just a moment.
For now, let's shift our focus onto the H.
RF attribute.
We want to replace this hash tag with a U.
RL that points to the parent page of the current page.
So within those quotes, let's drop into P HP and let's echo out the results of a function named Get
Permalink.
So this function is similar to get the title instead of being limited to just the current page, a post
that we've looped through.
We can pass it a number or an I.D. and it will give us the permalink for that post or that page.
So let's also just place an X here as a placeholder.
And now all we need to do, instead of having an X here in here, we just need to use the same I.D.
number that we created up here with these two functions.
Right.
Remember this WP get post parent I.D. function will give us the I.D. of the current page's parent page.
Now, this code that I'm highlighting right now is a lot to type.
So we probably don't want to have to type that out again here in here instead, right above this F line.
Why don't we create a variable that stores this numerical I.D. and then we can just access that variable
again and again.
So let's create a variable and we can make up the name.
Let's call it the parent.
The name doesn't matter.
We're just making something up that we can remember.
And we just want it to equal the number that this function generates.
So it lets just copy and paste this or you can even cut and paste it.
Right.
So now the parentheses for the if statement will be empty and we can say that our variable equals that.
And now we can use this variable in three places.
We can use it as the condition for our IF statement.
So we can say if our variable.
Right, because if it's a zero that will evaluate to false.
It'll work just the same as this is just less typing this time around.
And then, as you might have guessed, we can use that same variable where our X place holders are.
So right here, let's delete the ex and just say the parent.
And let's do the same thing for this ex.
So get the title and then the parent.
And then if we save this and refresh our cookie policy page, which is a child, the privacy policy,
when I refresh now we see back to privacy policy here.
And if I click on that.
Cool, it successfully takes me to the parent page.
And if I go up into the address bar and visit the about us, our history sub page or child page.
Cool.
We see back to about us.
And if we click it, the link indeed works.
Now, at this point, you might be asking yourself, how are visitors of the Web site supposed to navigate
to the child pages?
Right.
We're on the about us parent page.
And nowhere do we see links to the two children pages.
Well, that is the exact issue that we are going to fix and work on in our next lesson.
We will learn how to add a sidebar menu right about here that automatically includes links to any and
all children pages.
It should be a lot of fun to code out.
Let's keep things rolling.
And I will see you in the next lesson.